---
layout: post
title: Setting up an environment & using terminal
tags:
- Blog
- Post
- Terminal
- Text editor
---

#Getting setup
One of the first things that you need to be acquainted with, if you aren't already, is the terminal. Another phrase you will probably here often is "*setting up your environment.*" I will talk about both in this post.

There are two basic things you will need as a software developer:

1. **the Terminal**
2. **a Text Editor**

These will be where you do most of your programming. If your're using Windows then your *"terminal"* is known as the **Command Prompt**. In Mac OS X it's referred to as just **Terminal**. This tutorial is geared toward Mac users, but you can find plenty of [Window-based tutorials](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/windows-command-prompt-introduction/) on the subject if that's what you need. I included one you can click on above.

##The Terminal

There are a lot of commands you can run in your terminal that will do the same thing you would do with your mouse in your OS (Operatind System), only things get done faster. I'll admit it felt weird to me at first, but the more I used terminal commands the more comfortable I got. Here are a few command you can try, so go ahead and open up your terminal. You can use your Finder or check your desktop docking station.

Here are some terminal commands I have found useful:
<hr />

<h2 id=Table></h2>
<table class="table table-striped">  
<tr>  
<th>Command</th>  
<th>Role</th>  
</tr>  
<tr>  
<td>ls</td>  
<td>Lists Folder contents</td>  
</tr>  
<tr class="even">  
<td>cd *filename*</td>  
<td>Enters a folder</td>
</tr>  
<tr>  
<td>cd ..</td>  
<td>Leaves a folder</td>
</tr>
<tr>  
<td>cd ~</td>  
<td>Back to home folder</td>  
</tr>
<tr>  
<td>mkdir</td>  
<td>Creates a folder</td>  
</tr>
<tr>  
<td>touch *filename*</td>  
<td>Creates a file</td>  
</tr>
<tr>  
<td>rm</td>  
<td>Removes a file</td>  
</tr>
<tr>  
<td>cat *filename*</td>  
<td>Gets file content</td>  
</tr>
<tr>  
<td>say '*text*' </td>  
<td>Computer speaks *text*</td>  
</tr>
<tr>
<td>irb</td>
<td>Ruby console</td>
</tr>
</table>

<hr />
##Text Editor

Another equally important tool is your text editor. There are so many that you can choose from. I use **Sublime** and I also like *Atom*. They have great features, some handy short-cuts that make typing and editing easier, and both are free to download. 

A text editor is commonly used by web designers and developers to enter, change, store, and usually print text (text can be characters or numbers). Most text editors are extremely versatile and allow the user to write in multiple programming languages.

There's even a way to get to your text editor from the terminal. If you are using sublime then go ahead an follow the code below in your terminal:
<hr />

<code>~$ mkdir ~/bin</code>

Then hit return and type:

<code>~$ echo export PATH="$PATH:~/bin" >> ~/ .bash_profile</code>

(If the bash_profile hasn't been created yet, you can do that by typing:
<code>~$ touch~/.bash_profile</code>)

Next type on **one line**:

(If you're using Sublime Text 3)

<code>~$ ln -s "/Applications/Sublime Text.app/Contents/SharedSupport/bin/subl" ~/bin/subl</code>

(If you are using Sublime Text 2)

<code>~$ ln -s "/Applications/Sublime Text2.app/Contents/SharedSupport/bin/subl" ~/bin/subl</code>

After you've completed those steps go ahead and restart your terminal so you can test it out. Now type in:

<code>~$ subl </code>

Sublime should open up and you are free to start using your text editor! Another cool feature is being able to *cd* (see above commands) into a folder, opening up sublime, and having all the files in that particular folder in your sublime editor! If you want to try it just go into any folder in the terminal and type:

<code>~$ subl . </code>
<hr />
Yep, you simply add a period and that's it!
This comes in handy when you begin writing code and it's a must have tool when using ruby on rails. That's all for now!
