---
layout: post
title: Git basics and Github
tags:
- Blog
- Post
- Git
- Github
---

##Git

Git is a tool that helps you keep track of changes that you make in the code of a project you are working on. You access it using your terminal (seem my last post if you arent sure what I mean by terminal). A common mistake, and one that I initially made, is thinking Git and Github are the same. They are not. Git will keep track of your code on your local console, whereas github is a website that you can push your code up and have it saved online. They work together so that you won't ever lose code you're working on.

To start a new Git respository on your computer type the following in your terminal:

`~$ git init`

Whenever you make a change to your code you can add those changes to your Git respository by typing in:

`~$git add .` or `git add --all`

>*_**Pro-tip**_: _Make sure you are in the correct directory/folder you want to add your changes to before you type this_

You can always check to see what files are being added/changed at any time by typing:

`~$git status`

When your ready to keep changes you made to your new code, you will need to save it.You can put whatever message you would like in between the quotation marks, but it's wise to make it a specfic message about what exactly you changed in your code:

`~$git commit -m "specific changes that you made"`

>*_**Pro-tip**_: _When you make your very first commit you can write "inital commit" as your message_

>*_**Pro-tip**_: _The more specific the message the better able to remember where you left off and what your were doing. More importantly when working with others on a project this will better communicate to them what you're doing_

Whenever you want to see a history of your commit messages and identify the changes that you made, type in:

`~$git log`

##Github

Everything we have done so far has been local. Meaning any changes commited only effect code on your computer. In order to back it up online or contribute to someone elses code you need to push it up to [Github](https://github.com).

To do this you will need an account on [Github](https://github.com). It's easy to setup and before you use it to push your code up it would be helpful to read up on __gists__ and __repositories__.

Let's use a repository to store your code in. Since you are pushing it up to [Github](https://github.com) you will need to make new repository and give it the same name as that of the folder that you are saving your code in locally.

Once you create your repository you will be given different helpful commands to get your code synced up in the repository. You will need to copy the commands that [Github](https://github.com) provides you after you create your repository. They should look like this:

`~$ git remote add origin https://"link given for your repostory"`

followed by:

`~$ git push -u origin master`

Now you should see your code in your newly made Github repository!

>*_**Pro-tip**_ _Remember to save your code often when making changes. This will help you pinpoint any bugs down the road and, coupled with detailed messages, save yourself from a lot of frustration later_

From this point on after you git commit and are ready to push up your code to this repository you will only need to type:

`~$ git push origin master`

The -u was only needed for the initial push. If you have any questions feel free to leave a comment below. Happy coding!














