---
layout: post
title: Getting some much-needed (Uni)rest...an easier way to consume API's
tags:
- Blog
- Post
- API
- Ruby
- Gem
- Rails
- Youtube
---
##Unirest
<hr />
I was shown this little *"gem"* (pun intended) while first learning about how to consume API's. I found Unirest to be a very easy way to get JSON information where I needed it without having to write too much code.

In this particular example I had to make a call to Youtube and return the top videos of whatever search topic the user wanted. However, reading through the documentation, mostly through google developers, was a bit confusing to me at first and I felt like I didn't need to have so much code for such a small feature.

Enter __Unirest__! I had first used Unirest to call on a weather API in one of my rails projects and enjoyed the simplicity of it. **Light bulb**! I can try it in this situation as well even though I wasn't using rails. So here is what I did and you can do to:

1. you will need a developer key to access Youtube. You can get a step-by-step on how to get one [here](https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3/getting-started#intro)
2. Make sure you are in the right folder (whichever folder you want your code to exist in) and that you are using ruby 2.0 or greater.
3. In your terminal type in: **gem install unirest**
4. After installing the gem package make sure that you require these two things in your ruby file:

		require 'rubygems'
		require 'unirest'

To use Unirest set up a variable you want to use to store the API call in and set it equal to _Unirest.get(Your API address here).body_. I'll use my example below:

	search_results = Unirest.get("https://www.googleapis.com/youtube/v3/search?part=snippet&q=#{user_search}&type=video&maxResults=#{number}&key=#{developer_key}").body[items]

So lets break what's inside the "_Unirest.get().body_" down:

-I made my call to the youtube API, which is what the *https://* address respresents. Inside that address I had to make some changes:

* right after the __"q="__ I inserted _#{user_search}_. This takes whatever terms the user types in and searches youtube for videos with those specific terms.
* after the __"maxResults="__ I inserted a _#{number}_ so that the user can pick how many videos they want to see on the topic they selected. (If you want you can assign a number here instead).
* then after __"key="__ I placed _#{developer_key}_ which is exactly what it means...a place to put the developer key needed to access youtube.
* Lastly the __"[items]"__ is needed to allow you to access information inside the JSON array of the API that you just made the call to. That's where the information you're going to want to display resides. 

That's it! A simple API call using Unirest! 
How you would like to display your results is up to you. Mine was very simple and basic.

In a ruby file I had saved users input with a simple gets.chomp method.

	puts "Please enter the type of youtube videos you are looking for:"
	user_search = gets.chomp
	
	puts "Please enter the number of videos you would you like to see"
	number = gets.chomp

then I made my Unirest call (see code above).
Next I made an array and pushed my search results into it:

	videos_array = []
	search_results.each do |results|
		videos_array << "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=" + ["id"]["videoId"]
	end
Then I displayed what they entered:

	puts "Here are your results:"
	puts videos_array

The user now has the specific amount of videos they wanted for the topic they searched! If you have any questions or comments please feel free to contact me! 






