---
layout: post
title: Ruby's "bread and butter" or "arrays and hashes"
tags:
- Blog
- Post
- Ruby
- Arrays
- Hashes
---

#Ruby
<hr />
Ruby is a great first language to learn. Especially when it comes to learning arrays and hashes. I started off with Javascript and I feel like it took me much longer to understand the concepts behind these two mechanisms than it did in Ruby.

Let's get right into it.

So just about everything in ruby is an _object_. __Arrays__ and __hashes__ included. This makes sense to me now, but it didn't help all that much initially when I first started learning. What did was this; think of arrays and hashes as large storage facilities. You can put things like numbers, strings, booleans in them. As many as you want! When you need them you can simply go into the storage facility and extract what you need. 

The differene between the arrays and hashes is __HOW__ things are stored. In arrays you store the value you want, however in hashes you store a _key_ and _value_. To access the value you have to get the key. Let's take a look.

##Arrays
	array_avengers = []
	array_avengers = ["thor", "hulk", "captain america", "iron man"]

In the above I have stored the avengers in my array. To access them one at a time I could do:

	array_avengers[0] = "thor"
	array_avengers[1] = "hulk"
	array_avengers[2] = "captain america"
	array_avengers[3] = "iron man"

What if I want to access all of them and _print_ them to the page?
I could use an __each__ loop:

	array_avengers.each do |avenger|
		puts avenger
	end
Will _print_:

	"thor"
	"hulk"
	"captain america"
	"iron man"

If you need to add something to your array:

	array_avengers << "black widow"
__or__
	
	array_avengers.push("black widow")
Both of these will add an element to the end of the array so your array will look like:

	array_avengers = ["thor", "hulk", "captain america", "iron man", "black widow"]
If you want __remove__ an object from your array:

	array_avengers = ["thor", "hulk", "captain america", "iron man"]
	array_avengers.pop = ["thor", "hulk", "captain america"]
	array_avengers.shift= ["hulk", "captain america", "iron man"]
	array_avengers.delete_at(2) = ["thor", "hulk", "iron man"]
There are often more than one way to do things in Ruby.

###Nested arrays

Theses are arrays inside of arrays. Like this:

	nested_array_avengers= [["thor", "hulk", "black widow"], ["hawkeye","captain america", "iron man"]]
Let's say I wanted to access _"hawkeye"_, I could type:

	nested_array_avengers[1][0] = "hawkeye"
The [1] will access the 2nd object in the first array (which is also an array) and the [0] accesses the 1st object in the second array, which is the avenger "hawkeye".

What if we want to add a _status_ to each of the nested arrays?  

	nested_array_avengers.each do |avengers|
		avengers << "status: active"
	end
	
This would give us an output of:

	[["thor", "hulk", "black widow", "status: active"], ["hawkeye", "captain america", "iron man", "status: active"]]
What if we wanted to assign this status to each avenger by giving them each an _/active_ assignment after their name? Then would have to iterate through all the nested elements like this:

	nested_array_avengers.each do |avengers|
		avengers.each do |individual_avenger|
			individual_avenger << "/active"
		end
	end

Your output would look like this:

	[["thor/active", "hulk/active", "black widow/active"], ["hawkeye/active", "captain america/active", "iron man/active"]]

##Hashes

Hashes are also great at storing information, but the way they do it is different than arrays. They consist of __key/value__ pairings. For example:

	football_teams = {
		:chicago => "bears",
		:minnesota => "vikings",
		:detroit => "lions",
		:green_bay => "packers"
	}
If I wanted to call on say _"bears"_, I would type this:

	football_teams[:chicago]
	
If you're familiar with Javascript you might associate this with objects being declared as variables...and you wouldn't be wrong. They are  similar.

###nested hashes
Lets try some nesting, much like we did above with arrays.

	football_divisions = {
		"nfc_south" => {
			"carolina" => "panthers",
			"atlanta" => "falcons"
 		},
 		"nfc_east" => {
 			"dallas" => "cowboys",
 			"new_york" => "giants"
 		},
 		"nfc_west" => {
 			"seattle" => "seahawks",
 			"arizona" => "cardinals"
 		},
 		"nfc_north" => {
 			"chicago" => "bears",
 			"detroit" => "lions"
 		}
	}
We can do the same thing here and access teams by calling:

	football_divisions["nfc_south"]
and getting:

	=> {"carolina"=>"panthers", "atlanta"=>"falcons"}
Here we don't just get the the team __NAME__(_value_), we get the __CITY__ (_key_) as well.

If you wanted just the name of a team you could access them like:

	football_divisions["nfc_south"]["carolina"]
and that would return

	=> "panthers"
However this doesn't really help us if we want ALL the team names from the division. So if thats the case then we will need to call on a loop. Much like the array loop above but slighty modified:

	football_divisions["nfc_south"].each do |city, team|
		puts team
	end
You might have noticed that I have two words between the posts instead of just one. Remember that we have a __key__ (_city_) AND a __value__ (_team_).

If I wanted to print the team names from every division then I would need an external and internal loop, like this:

	football_divisions.each do |key, value|
		value.each do |city, team|
			puts team
		end
	end
This would you give you all of the team names. You could have "puts city" and gotten all of the city names. You can name _"key"_ and _"value"_ anything you want, but it will make things clearer if they relate to the type of information you are calling.
 
Arrays and hashes are what make ruby so powerful and are used all the time! Getting a firm handle on these and you'll be well on your way to understanding the core concepts of Ruby!
	
	
		
		
	